#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Preview

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
author{Bjorn Van Campenhout
\backslash
thanks{Development Strategy and Governance Division, International Food
 Policy Research Institute, Leuven, Belgium - corresponding author: b.vancampenho
ut@cgiar.org} 
\backslash
footnotemark[3] , Bart Minten
\backslash
thanks{Development Strategy and Governance Division, International Food
 Policy Research Institute, Addis Abeba, Ethiopia}, and Johan Swinnen
\backslash
thanks{LICOS Center for Institutions and Economic Performance, KULeuven,
 Belgium}}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Title
Innovations in Dairy Value Chains - Evidence from Uganda
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The dairy sector in Uganda has undergoing substantial changes over the last
 few decades.
 A combination of policy changes, an injection of foreign direct investment,
 changing diets of an increasingly demanding urban and rural population
 and technological progress have substantially altered the entire value
 chain over time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
value chain in Uganda is arguably one of the most dynamic.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In a sense, the success in the dairy sector also came as a surprise.
 For instance Shephard (2016) is hesitant about the future of the dairy
 sector in Uganda as a strong export oriented sector, pointing out informality
 of relationships constrained the development of contractual interactions
 resulting in supply uncertainties at the level of the processors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ankole heifers only start producing milk after four years.
 For a fresian, this is already after one year.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
The demand for milk
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consumption of dairy products has been increasing over time in Uganda.
 According to the UN
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Policy context
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The sector was 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Also important is seasonality in prices.
 For seasonality, write about the importance of Amos.
 Also discuss innovations such as mobile phone (Jensen; no more losses in
 rainy season) and motorbikes etc.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Impressive poverty reduction, high price elasticity of dairy products, milk
 in particular -> Increase in demand.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The weakening shilling also probably contributed to the export boom in dairy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Evolution of herd size:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Indeed, as profit squeezes have hit Ugandan dairy farmers some have reduced
 the number of Friesian and other crosses in their herds, partly because
 the tradi- tional breeds require fewer purchased inputs to main- tain their
 health; farmers repeatedly emphasized that they see lit- tle point in adopting
 measures to increase efficiency and expand milk production if there is
 no profitable market for the additional milk.
 Indeed, some farmers experiencing profit squeezes had cut back on efforts
 to improve pastures, reduced the number of Friesian- cross dairy cattle
 in their herds, and reduced the use of purchased inputs to control insects
 and cattle diseases.
 Such farms had returned to traditional low-cost, low- output methods of
 production.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
